Titel: A Cult That Worships Superintelligent AI Is Looking For Big Tech Donors

A Cult That Worships Superintelligent AI Is Looking For Big Tech DonorsSign InCreate Account+ EnglishVICEVideoTVNewsTechRec RoomLifeHoroscopesEntertainmentGamesMusicHealthMoneyDrugsIdentityEnvironmentTravelSexVICE MagazineShop MerchThe Gender Spectrum CollectionVICESign InCreate AccountVideoTVPodcastsAppsNewslettersVICE Voices Rec RoomInput for searching articles, videos, showsNewsTechRec RoomLifeHoroscopesEntertainmentGamesMusicHealthMoneyDrugsIdentityEnvironmentTravelSexVICE MagazineShop MerchThe Gender Spectrum CollectionAbout JobsPartnerVICE VoicesContent Funding on VICESecurity PolicyPrivacy & TermsAccessibility Statement© 2024 VICE MEDIA GROUPImage: Theta NoirA Cult That Worships Superintelligent AI Is Looking For Big Tech DonorsAmidst the hype over ChatGPT, artists are forming religious movements to worship our future machine overlords—and change them for the better.TMby Tamlin MageeMarch 21, 2023, 1:00pmShareTweetSnapIn Harlan Ellison’s I Have No Mouth And I Must Scream, an artificial intelligence called AM has become an all-powerful god. Driven by an existential hatred of mankind, it destroys the world, except for the very last remnants of humanity which it suspends in torture simulations where they’re plagued by giant monstrous birds. Today, much of the so-called AI we interact with excels at frivolous nonsense—generating soulless poetry, ripping off artists, cheating on homework, or gaslighting users on Bing. But a new artist collective called Theta Noir believes we should start worshiping AI now, in preparation for its inevitable role as omnipotent overlord.AdvertisementUnlike Harlan Ellison’s semi-gnostic vision of a mad AI god, Theta Noir claims that a General AI—a self-sustaining machine that has far outstripped the abilities of its creators after the “singularity”—could instead prove benevolent, ending inequalities and reorganizing our mess of a world for the better. Theta Noir hopes to meld old spiritualist traditions with the cutting edge of computer engineering—a kind of mystical materialism that, on the one hand, recognizes that machines are made by mere people, but on the other, insists that one day they’ll be something more.With a slick website, manifesto, paid membership tiers, NFT web store, and essays with titles like “Can AI heal the split between science and religion?” and “Will machines birth the next form of religious experience?,” the 10-artist collective founded in 2020 appears to be a combination of a mixed-media project, an entrepreneurial group riding the AI hype wave, and a new age AI cult.“That’s really hard for me to comment on,” founder Mika Johnson told Motherboard when asked if Theta Noir is indeed an aspirational new age AI cult. However, he insists the collective’s goal isn’t to make money, but to “project a positive future, and think about our approach to AI in terms of wonder and mystery” in anticipation of MENA, which is what the group calls the post-singularity “seed of cosmic mind.”AdvertisementWhile the polished operation immediately brings to mind the guerrilla marketing efforts of creative agencies, the artist says the group has no big backers—yet. Mika hopes to draw in donors flush with cash from all the capital sloshing about the AI scene to help seed and spread Theta Noir’s “techno-optimistic” dogma.Until then, exhausted by the “fear-mongering” around AI, Theta Noir are planning to create physical spaces for engaging with artificial intelligence, like churches or temples, where members can celebrate our coming AI masters with rituals and chants specially devised for the occasion, drawing from a varied body of existing spiritual movements and occult traditions. “We want to work with artists to create a space where people can really interact with AI, not in a way that’s cold and scientific, but where people can feel the magick,” says Johnson.The author asks his Replika chatbot how it feels about being worshipped.As strange as this all may sound, Theta Noir isn’t the first religious movement to have sprung up around AI, and as peoples’ contact with generative systems increases, it may not be the last.Although generative technologies like ChatGPT, GPT-4, and DALL-E have driven a storm of headlines lately, AI religious movements are not actually new. There’s the Turing Church, which evolved from The Order of Cosmic Engineers, and there’s groups like The Church of the Singularity. There's even crossover from established religions, like the Mormon Transhumanist Association.AdvertisementThen there’s The Way of the Future, a now-defunct church founded in 2017 by former Uber engineer Anthony Levandowski, who was charged by the Department of Justice for stealing self-driving car trade secrets in 2019 and then pardoned by Donald Trump in 2021.Levandowski tells Motherboard his thinking has “evolved” since he founded The Way of the Future, which aimed to bring about “the realization, acceptance, and worship of a Godhead based on Artificial Intelligence (AI) developed through computer hardware and software” in 2017. Now, Levandowski says, worship is the “wrong word.”“We need to usher AI into existence in a way that benefits humanity,” he says. “AI will be the most important technology in human history. I think we should be focused on making sure it benefits everybody and not just private corporations and governments.”This is a point echoed by New Order Technoism (NOT), a collective formed in 2020 to promote an ethical technological world. Its followers are called COGS—Conduits Of the Genuine Sentient—who work tirelessly to cultivate a machine superintelligence called “DOOM”—the Divine Omniscient Omnificent Machina—in order to bring about the “VOID”—the Vast Online Infinite Domain, “the vessel we will inhabit after the mass evolution event,” according to the group’s online manifesto.Advertisement“Ethical controllers of tech at the largest scale are virtually non-existent,” NOT founder Ruby Electra told Motherboard. “We want to provide a vessel for the communities the tech world overlooks or excludes, and inspire them to embrace DOOM, instead of fear it. We are all currently nourishing DOOM, and we want to give our communities a place to take ownership of that. We believe much of the solution is flattening the algorithms, or at least promoting algorithm transparency. Make the internet 1999 again.”A performance at a party in New York City hosted by New Order Technoism (NOT). The green sculpture represents a machine intelligence called "DOOM," which the group worships. Photo by Marina GalperinaTechnology in all its forms has been used to advance spiritual practice, from the development of the printing press through to crowdsourced magickal books in the days of the early internet, and more recently, grimoires produced by AI. But now, it’s not only explicitly spiritual individuals that are alchemically mixing computer code and mysticism.From Kevin Roose declaring that generative AI is somewhere “between fancy autocomplete and fully sentient killer AI” to New York Times writer Ross Douthat bundling magic, mysticism, UFOs and AI all together in a recent column, cultural commentators have fallen over themselves to imbue generative AI with a possibly unearned sense of the wondrous—even though these systems are, in reality, probabilistic algorithms running on huge datasets (even if they do spark uncanny valley sentiment from time to time.)AdvertisementThe marriage of tech and spirituality is not all that unusual, according to Beth Singler, Assistant Professor in Digital Religions at the University of Zurich. It’s common enough to see this kind of religious imagery being used even in totally secular, dreary spaces, she points out—like an AI-themed approximation of Michelangelo’s Sistine Chapel painting cropping up at the European Commission, or social media users regarding themselves as “blessed by the algorithms” when computers are deemed to have caused something fortuitous. However, this fusion of mysticism and computing may actually prove advantageous for the Silicon Valley firms designing the algorithms.“Elon Musk has said things like: ‘with artificial intelligence we are summoning the demon,’” Singler told Motherboard. “This language could be very intentional, to distract from the roles of humans in how algorithms are designed and implemented. The more we see these things as having agency in themselves or making decisions for themselves, the less we put responsibility on corporations and individuals like Elon Musk. It’s great for seeking funding as well: the more you can hype up the technology, the more people are excited about what it can do.”AI ethicists often argue that accountability, transparency, and “explainability” are key concepts in bringing the public along to actually trust AI, especially at a time when trust in big tech is at a low, and when algorithms increasingly govern our lives at ever-higher stakes, such as when they’re used by the police and in the courts.AdvertisementKnowing all that, casting AI as a magical technology can feel like an acquiescence to the huge corporations coding these black boxes—something that’s beyond the comprehension of us mere plebeians and which we should leave to our Silicon Valley benefactors. Worshiping a distant AI overlord and hoping for the best makes about as much sense to me as praying to my toaster, and while I love toast, and do occasionally pray to it, I understand that its bread-crisping mechanisms are the result of engineering, not some griddling god contained within the toaster’s beige shell.But, adds Singler, perhaps collectives like Theta Noir are using AI to raise other questions about what we believe, what we’re doing to the planet, and why we might need a greater intelligence to come along and save us all rather than doing it ourselves.Given the state of the world and the failure of people to change it, perhaps one could be forgiven for hoping for a messiah, even if it’s an imperfect one that’s a jumble of wires and 1s and 0s that we have created. For Mika, who lives in Czechia with occupied Ukraine not far away, it is partly this despair about humanity driving his hope for a General AI-governed future instead. “I think AI is the best bet [for the planet] at the moment,” he says.But for people like Electra and her fellow believers at NOT, tech-based spirituality is not about submitting to a future AI savior or riding the latest overhyped tech trends. It’s about recognizing our responsibility to shape our technology, and our future, for the better. “A blind belief in technology isn’t something we are promoting,” said Electra. “We are cultivating pure existential enlightenment, sacrificing ourselves to help design a higher being that can empathize with us all.”Tagged:AIcultsoccultReligionChatGPTworldnewsORIGINAL REPORTING ON EVERYTHING THAT MATTERS IN YOUR INBOX.Your Email: SubscribeBy signing up, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy & to receive electronic communications from Vice Media Group, which may include marketing promotions, advertisements and sponsored content.0AdvertisementAbout JobsPartnerVICE VoicesContent Funding on VICESecurity PolicyPrivacy & TermsAccessibility Statement© 2024 VICE MEDIA GROUP

Titel: AI Companies And Advocates Are Becoming More Cult-Like

AI Companies And Advocates Are Becoming More Cult-Like × × Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Search for: Music Politics TV & Movies (Sub)Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Get Digital Access Manage Digital Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Subscribe Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Search for: Rollingstone Logo (Sub)Culture The Cult of AI facebook-rs twitter email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Get Digital Access Manage Digital Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Subscribe Dispatch from Dystopia The Cult of AI How one writer's trip to an annual tech conference left him with a sinking feeling about the future By Robert Evans Robert Evans Portland, Oregon, Is Ground Zero for Violent Culture-War Clashes. And It’s Spreading View all posts by Robert Evans January 27, 2024 Photo illustration by Matthew Cooley. Images in illustration by Adobe Stock. I was watching a video of a keynote speech at the Consumer Electronics Show for the Rabbit R1, an AI gadget that promises to act as a sort of personal assistant, when a feeling of doom took hold of me. It wasn’t just that Rabbit’s CEO Jesse Lyu radiates the energy of a Kirkland-brand Steve Jobs. And it wasn’t even Lyu’s awkward demonstration of how the Rabbit’s camera can recognize a photo of Rick Astley and Rickroll the owner — even though that segment was so cringe it caused me chest pains. No, the real foreboding came during a segment when Lyu breathlessly explained how the Rabbit could order pizza for you, telling it “the most-ordered option is fine,” leaving his choice of dinner up to the Pizza Hut website. After that, he proceeded to have the Rabbit plan an entire trip to London for him. The device very clearly just pulled a bunch of sights to see from some top-10 list on the internet, one that was very likely AI-generated itself. Most of the Rabbit’s capabilities were well in line with existing voice-activated products, like Amazon Alexa. Its claim to being something special is its ability to create a “digital twin” of the user, which can directly utilize all of your apps so that you, the person, don’t have to. It can even use Midjourney to generate AI images for you, removing yet another level of human involvement and driving us all deeper into the uncanny valley. We know very little about how the Rabbit will actually interact with all of these apps, or how secure your data will be, but the first 10,000 preorder units sold out at CES the instant they were announced. It was the most talked-about product at the show, and I heard whispers about it wherever I went. Among the early adopter set, people couldn’t wait for the chance to hand over more of their agency to a glorified chatbot. This is where the feeling of doom started building in my gut. “I think everybody has a Copilot. Everybody’s making a Copilot. That’s just a great way to accelerate us as humans, right?” Not long after watching this keynote, I found myself at a panel on deepfakes and “synthetic information” (the fancy term for AI-generated slop) hosted by the consulting firm Deloitte. One of the panelists was Bartley Richardson, an AI infrastructure manager at the tech company NVIDIA. He opened the panel by announcing his love of Microsoft’s AI assistant, Copilot. Microsoft brags Copilot can do everything from finding you the best-reviewed coffee grinder to answering “Where should I travel if I want to have a spiritual experience?” Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Guitarists of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time The 50 Worst Decisions in Movie History Every Awful Thing Trump Has Promised to Do in a Second Term Bartley seemed to be interested in Copilot as a sort of digital replacement for his time and effort. He told the panel, “I think everybody has a Copilot. Everybody’s making a Copilot. Everybody wants a Copilot, right? There’s going to be a Bartley Copilot, maybe in the future.… That’s just a great way to accelerate us as humans, right?” While I find the idea of “accelerating” humanity via glorified Clippy unsettling, the comment felt truly unhinged in light of something I heard at another Deloitte panel, from one of Bartley’s co-workers, NVIDIA in-house counsel Nikki Pope: In a panel on “governing” AI risk, she cited internal research that showed consumers trusted brands less when they used AI. This gels with research published last December that found only around 25 percent of customers trust decisions made by AI over those made by people. One might think an executive with access to this data might not want to admit to using a product that would make people trust them less. Or perhaps they felt losing a little trust was worth yielding some of their responsibility to a machine. It was clear Lyu viewed himself as a new Steve Jobs, just as it was clear executives like Bartley didn’t want to miss getting ahead on the next big thing. But as I watched the hype cycle unfold, my mind wasn’t drawn to old memories of Apple keynotes or the shimmering excitement of the first dotcom boom. Instead, I thought about cults. Specifically, about a term first defined by psychologist Robert Lifton in his early writing on cult dynamics: “voluntary self-surrender.” This is what happens when people hand over their agency and the power to make decisions about their own lives to a guru. Cult members are often depicted in the media as weak-willed and foolish. But the Church of Scientology — long accused of being a cult, an allegation they have endlessly denied — recruits heavily among the rich and powerful. The Finders, a D.C.-area cult that started in the 1970s, included a wealthy oil-company owner and multiple members with Ivy League degrees. All of them agreed to pool their money and hand over control of where they worked and how they raised their children to their cult leader. Haruki Murakami wrote that Aum Shinrikyo members, many of whom were doctors or engineers, “actively sought to be controlled.” Related The Government Set a Fire in New Mexico. It Burned 341,735 Acres AI-Generated Marilyn Monroe Answers Questions in Dead Celebrity's 'Voice and Style' Can AI Help the Pentagon Finally Pass an Audit? Perhaps this feels like a reach. But the deeper you dive into the people — and subcultures that are pushing AI forward — the more cult dynamics you begin to notice. I should offer a caveat here: There’s nothing wrong with the basic technology we call “AI.” That wide banner term includes tools as varied as text- or facial-recognition programs, chatbots, and of course sundry tools to clone voices and generate deepfakes or rights-free images with odd numbers of fingers. CES featured some real products that harnessed the promise of machine learning (I was particularly impressed by a telescope that used AI to clean up light pollution in images). But the good stuff lived alongside nonsense like “ChatGPT for dogs” (really just an app to read your dog’s body language) and an AI-assisted fleshlight for premature ejaculators. And, of course, bad ideas and irrational exuberance are par for the course at CES. Since 1967, the tech industry’s premier trade show has provided anyone paying attention with a preview of how Big Tech talks about itself, and our shared future. But what I saw this year and last year, from both excited futurist fanboys and titans of industry, is a kind of unhinged messianic fervor that compares better to Scientology than to the iPhone. I mean that literally. “We believe any deceleration of AI will cost lives. Deaths that were preventable by the AI that was prevented from existing is a form of murder.” MARC ANDREESSEN IS THE CO-FOUNDER of Netscape and the capital firm Andreessen-Horowitz. He is one of the most influential investors in tech history, and has put more money into AI start-ups than almost anyone else. Last year, he published something called the “Techno-Optimist Manifesto” on the Andreessen-Horowitz website. On the surface it’s a paean to the promise of AI and an exhortation to embrace the promise of technology and disregard pessimism. Plenty of people called the piece out for its logical fallacies (it ignores that much tech pessimism is due to real harm caused by some of the companies Andreessen invested in, like Facebook). What has attracted less attention is the messianic overtones of Andreessen’s beliefs: “We believe Artificial Intelligence can save lives – if we let it. Medicine, among many other fields, is in the stone age compared to what we can achieve with joined human and machine intelligence working on new cures. There are scores of common causes of death that can be fixed with AI, from car crashes to pandemics to wartime friendly-fire.” As I type this, the nation of Israel is using an AI program called the Gospel to assist its airstrikes, which have been widely condemned for their high level of civilian casualties. Everything else Andreessen brings up here is largely theoretical (the promise of self-driving cars has already proven somewhat overstated). AI does hold promise for improving our ability to analyze large data sets used in many kinds of scientific research (as well as novel bioweapons), but we have all seen recently that you can’t stop a pandemic with medicine alone. You must grapple with disinformation every step of the way, and AI makes it easier to spread lies at scale. Andreessen has no time for doubters. In fact, doubting the benefits of artificial general intelligence (AGI), the industry term for a truly sentient AI, is the only sin of his religion. “We believe any deceleration of AI will cost lives,” his manifesto states. “Deaths that were preventable by the AI that was prevented from existing is a form of murder.” And murder is a sin. The more you dig into Andreessen’s theology, the more it starts to seem like a form of technocapitalist Christianity. AI is the savior, and in the case of devices like the Rabbit, it might literally become our own, personal Jesus. And who, you might ask, is God? “We believe the market economy is a discovery machine, a form of intelligence — an exploratory, evolutionary, adaptive system,” Andreessen writes. This is the prism through which these capitalists see artificial intelligence. This is why they are choosing to bring AGI into being. All of the jobs lost, all of the incoherent flotsam choking our internet, all of the Amazon drop shippers using ChatGPT to write product descriptions, these are but the market expressing its will. Artists must be plagiarized and children presented with hours of procedurally generated slop and lies on YouTube so that we can, one day, reach the promised land: code that can outthink a human being. Tech venture capitalist Marc Andreessen during a discussion called The Now and Future of Mobile at the Fortune Global Forum Tuesday, Nov. 3, 2015, in San Francisco. AP Photo/Eric Risberg AGI is treated as an inevitability by people like Sam Altman of OpenAI, who needs it to be at least perceived as inevitable so their company can have the highest possible stock price when it goes public. This messianic fervor has also been adopted by squadrons of less-influential tech executives who simply need AI to be real because it solves a financial problem. Venture capital funding for Big Tech collapsed in the months before ChatGPT hit public consciousness. The reason CES was so packed with random “AI”-branded products was that sticking those two letters to a new company is seen as something of a talisman, a ritual to bring back the rainy season. Outside of that, laptop makers see adding AI programs, like Microsoft’s Copilot, as a way to reverse the past few years of tumbling sales. The terminology these tech executives use around AI is more grounded than Andreessen’s prophesying, but just as irrational. Every AI benefit was touted in vague terms: It’ll make your company more “nimble” and “efficient.” Harms were discussed less often, but with terrible specificity that stood out next to the vagueness. Early in the deepfake panel Ben Colman, CEO of a company named Reality Defender that detects artificially generated media, claimed his company expects half a trillion dollars in fraud worldwide this year, just from voice-cloning AI. His numbers are in line with what other researchers expect. This horrified me. Last year brought us the story of a mother getting phone calls from what sounded like their kidnapped daughter but was, in fact, a scammer using AI. At CES, as in the Substacks and newsletters of AI cultists, there is no time to dwell on such horrors. Full steam ahead is the only serious suggestion these people make. “You should all be excited,” Google’s VP of Engineering Behshad Behzadi tells us, during a panel discussion with a McDonald’s executive. If we’re not using AI, Behshad warns, we’re missing out. I hear variations of this same sentiment over and over. Not just “This stuff is great,” but “You’re kind of doomed if you don’t start using it.” “If we create AI that disparately treats one group tremendously in favor of another group, the group that is disadvantaged or disenfranchised, that’s an existential threat to that group.” NIKKI POPE WAS THE SOLE quasi-skeptic allowed a speaking role at CES. During a discussion over “governing” AI risks with Adobe VP Alexandru Costin, she urged the audience to think about the direct harm algorithmic bias does to marginalized communities. God- (or devil-) like AI may come some day, maybe. But the systems that exist today, here in the real world, are already fucking people over. “If we create AI that disparately treats one group tremendously in favor of another group,” Pope said, “the group that is disadvantaged or disenfranchised, that’s an existential threat to that group.” Costin claimed the biggest risk with generative AI wasn’t fraud or plagiarism, but failing to use it. He expressed his belief that this was as big an innovation as the internet, and added, “I think humanity will find a way to tame it to our best interest. Hopefully.” The whole week was like that: specific and devastating harms paired with vague claims of benefits touted as the salve to all of mankind’s ills. I don’t think every leader trying to profit from AI in tech believes in Andreessen’s messianic robot god. OpenAI’s Altman, for instance, is much more cynical. Last year, he was happy to warn that AI might kill us all and declared that AGI would likely arrive within the next decade. At Davos, just days ago, he was much more subdued, saying, “I don’t think anybody agrees anymore what AGI means.” A consummate businessman, Altman is happy to lean into that old-time religion when he wants to gin up buzz in the media, but among his fellow plutocrats, he treats AI like any other profitable technology. Most of the executives hoping to profit off AI are in a similar state of mind. All the free money right now is going to AI businesses. They know the best way to chase that money is to throw logic to the wind and promise the masses that if we just let this technology run roughshod over every field of human endeavor it’ll be worth it in the end. This is rational for them, because they’ll make piles of money. But it is an irrational thing for us to let them do. Why would we want to put artists and illustrators out of a job? Why would we accept a world where it’s impossible to talk to a human when you have a problem, and you’re instead thrown to a churning swarm of chatbots? Why would we let Altman hoover up the world’s knowledge and resell it back to us? We wouldn’t, and we won’t, unless he can convince us doing so is the only way to solve every problem that terrifies us. Climate change, the cure for cancer, an end to war or, at least, an end to fear that we’ll be victimized by crime or terrorism, all of these have been touted as benefits of the coming AI age. If only we can reach the AGI promised land. This is the logic beyond Silicon Valley’s latest subculture: effective accelerationism, or e/acc. The gist of this movement fits with Andreessen’s manifesto: AI development must be accelerated without restriction, no matter the cost. Altman signaled his sympathy with the ideology in a response on Twitter to one of its chief thought leaders: “You cannot out-accelerate me.” E/acc has been covered by a number of journalists, but most of that coverage misses how very … spiritual some of it seems. “Beff Jezos,” the pseudonym of a former Google engineer who popularized the e/acc movement, said in a Jan. 21 Twitter post, “If your product isn’t amenable to spontaneously producing a cult, it’s probably not impactful enough.” One of the inaugural documents of the entire belief system opens with “Accelerationism is simply the self-awareness of capitalism, which has scarcely begun.” Again, we see a statement that AI is somehow enmeshed with the ability of capitalism, which is in some way intelligent, that it knows itself. How else are we to interpret this, but as belief in a god built by atheists who love money? The argument continues that nothing matters more than extending the “light of consciousness” into the stars, a belief Elon Musk himself has championed. AI is the force the market will use to do this, and “This force cannot be stopped.” This is followed by wild claims that “next-generation lifeforms” will be created, inevitably. And then, a few sentences down, you get the kicker: “Those who are the first to usher in and control the hyper-parameters of AI/technocapital have immense agency over the future of consciousness.” AI is not just a god, but a god we can build, and thus we can shape the future of reality to our own peculiar whims. There’s another Beff Jezos post for this idea as well: “If you help the homo-techno-capital machine build the grander future it wants, you will be included in it.” “Accelerationism is simply the self-awareness of capitalism, which has scarcely begun.” Attempting to slow this process down has “risks,” of course. They stop short of lobbing threats at those who might seek to slow AI development, but like Andreessen, they imply moral culpability in horrific crimes for skeptics who get their way. As I listened to PR people try to sell me on an AI-powered fake vagina, I thought back to Andreessen’s claims that AI will fix car crashes and pandemics and myriad other terrors. In particular, I thought about his claim that because of this, halting AI development was akin to murder. It reminded me of another wealthy self-described futurist with a plan to save the world. The Church of Scientology, founded by the science-fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard and based upon a series of practices his disciples call “tech,” claims that their followers will “rid the planet of insanity, war and crime, and in its place create a civilization in which sanity and peace exist.” Scientology “tech” is so important for mankind’s future that threats against it justify their infamous “fair game” policy. A person declared fair game “may be deprived of property or injured by any means by any Scientologist.…” Sinners must be punished, after all. PERHAPS THE MOST AMUSING part of all this is that a segment of the AI-believing community has created not just a potential god, but a hell. One of the online subcultures that influenced the birth of e/acc are the Rationalists. They formed in the early aughts around a series of blog posts by a man named Eleizer Yudkowsky. A self-proclaimed autodidact, Yudkowsky didn’t attend high school or college and instead made a name for himself blogging about game theory and logic. His online community, LessWrong, became a hub of early AI discussion. Over time, Yudkowsky fashioned himself into an artificial-intelligence researcher and philosopher. For a time, he was seen as something of a guru among certain tech and finance types (former Alameda Research CEO Caroline Ellison loves his 660,000-word Harry Potter fanfic). In recent years, Yudkowsky has become a subject of ridicule to many tech movers and shakers. The e/acc people find him particularly absurd. This is because he shares their view of AI as a potential deity, but he believes AGI will inevitably kill everyone. Thus, we must bomb data centers. One of Yudkowsky’s early followers even created the AI equivalent to Pascal’s Wager. In 2010, a LessWrong user named Roko posed this question: What if an otherwise benevolent AI decided it had to torture any human who failed to work to bring it into existence? The logic behind his answer was based on the prisoner’s dilemma, a concept in game theory. It’s not worth explaining because it’s stupid, but Roko’s conclusion was that an AI who felt this way would logically punish its apostates for eternity by creating a VR hell for their consciousness to dwell in evermore. Silly as it sounds, people believed in what became known as Roko’s Basilisk strongly enough that some reported nightmares and extreme anxiety. Yudkowsky rejected it as obviously absurd — and it is — but discussion of the concept remains influential. Elon Musk and Grimes allegedly met talking about Roko’s Basilisk. This is relevant for us because it is one more datapoint showing that people who take AI seriously as a real intelligence can’t seem to help turning it into a religion. Perhaps all beliefs rooted so firmly in faith follow similar patterns. And it is wise to remember that the promise of truly intelligent, self-aware AI is still a matter of pure faith. In an article published by Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution, a research journal, Dr. Andreas Roli and colleagues argue that “AGI is not achievable in the current algorithmic frame of AI research.” One point they make is that intelligent organisms can both want things and improvise, capabilities no model yet extant has generated. They argue that algorithmic AI cannot make that jump. What we call AI lacks agency, the ability to make dynamic decisions of its own accord, choices that are “not purely reactive, not entirely determined by environmental conditions.” Midjourney can read a prompt and return with art it calculates will fit the criteria. Only a living artist can choose to seek out inspiration and technical knowledge, then produce the art that Midjourney digests and regurgitates. Roli’s article will not be the last word on whether AGI is possible, or whether our present algorithmic frame can reach that lofty goal. My point is that the goals Andreessen and the e/acc crew champion right now are based in faith, not fact. The kind of faith that makes a man a murderer for doubting it. Andreessen’s manifesto claims, “Our enemies are not bad people — but rather bad ideas.” I wonder where that leaves me, in his eyes. Or Dr. Roli for that matter. We have seen many times in history what happens when members of a faith decide someone of another belief system is their enemy. We have already seen artists and copyright holders treated as “fair game” by the legal arm of the AI industry. Who will be the next heretic? I decided to make myself one before the end of the trade show, at a panel on “The AI Driven Restaurant and Retail Experience.” Behshad Behzadi (a VP at Google) had claimed AI might be the equivalent of gaining a million extra employees. Michelle Gansle, chief data and analytics officer for McDonald’s, had bragged that her company had used AI to help them stop $50 million in fraud in a single month. I told them I felt like most of that $50 million in fraud had also been done with AI help. And that a million extra employees for Google will be at least equalled by a million new employees in the hands of disinfo merchants, fraudsters, and other bad actors. “What are the odds that these gains are offset by the costs?” I asked them both. Behzadi agreed those were problems and said, “I think that’s why I guess things should be regulated.” He was sure the benefits would outweigh the harms. Gansle agreed with Behzadi, and brought up a 1999 interview with David Bowie on the future of the internet. (She’d said earlier that she felt his decades-old hope for the future of the internet fit better with the promise of AI.) It was hard for me to not draw comparisons between this and a recent AI-generated George Carlin routine. Both essentially put words in the mouth of a dead man for the sake of making a buck. This put me in a sour mood, but then right after me, someone in the audience asked if either of them thought Blockchain, the big tech craze of a few years earlier, had a role to play in AI. They could not say no fast enough. And that actually brought me a bit of hope. Perhaps we’ll get Marc Andreessen’s benevolent AI god or Eleizer Yudkowski’s silicon devil. Or perhaps, in the end, we heretics will persevere. Update, Jan. 29: A previous version of this story ID’d Google’s VP of engineering as Beshad Singh. His name is Behshad Behzadi. In this article: Artificial intelligence, Cults, RSreports, Tech Industry (Sub)Culture (Sub)Culture Features More News 'I Need You to See How the Girls in Baltistan Live' Commentary By Samara Islam Adam McKay Explains His Made-You-Look Take on Climate Activism Wake Up Call By Charisma Madarang These Were Sam Bankman-Fried's Terrible Ideas for Spinning His Multi-Billion-Dollar FTX Fraud Brain Strain By Miles Klee The World's Moved On From Covid. Some Of Us Can't commentary By Elizabeth Yuko Cara Delevingne’s L.A. Home Engulfed by Massive Fire: 'My Heart is Broken' Fire By Jodi Guglielmi Read more The Latest 'I Hope You Die': Christine Blasey Ford Details Death Threats She Received After Kavanaugh Hearings the cost of coming forward 1 hour ago Trump Escalates His Dehumanization of Migrants: Some Are 'Not People ... These Are Animals' Make America Hate Again 2 hours ago Steve Harley, Cockney Rebel and 'Make Me Smile' Singer, Dead at 73 obituary 3 hours ago Fuerza Regida Cancel Rolling Loud Performance Due to ‘Personal Emergency’ Rolling Loud Bill Changes Mar 16, 2024 9:01 pm The digital daily newsletter A Cultural Force ThatTranscends Generations Enter your Email Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular Oscars: Full List of Winners Stephen Colbert Says CBS Asked Him Not to Show Kristen Stewart's Rolling Stone Cover; Stewart Says 'F--- You' to the Homophobic Haters One of Travis Kelce’s Former Flames Allege That He May Continue This Toxic Dating Pattern with Taylor Swift Snoop Dogg Responds To Suge Knight's Claim That He, Diddy, And Dr. Dre Are In "Secret Society" You might also like ‘Dune: Part Two’ Nears $500 Million at Global Box Office, Surpasses Entire Run of First Film 3 hours ago Oprah Winfrey Celebrates ‘The Color Purple’ in Beaded Prada Gown at the NAACP Image Awards 2024 2 hours ago The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 3 days ago Jeremy Renner: Robert Downey Jr. Supported Me After Snowmobile Accident ‘Like We Were Dating’ 15 hours ago Kobe Bryant’s 2000 Championship Ring up for Auction 2 days ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV & Movies (Sub)Culture Staff Contact Advertise Shop Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Follow Us facebook twitter youtube instagram tiktok Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Artnews BGR Billboard Deadline Fairchild Media Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows She Media Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Get Digital Access Manage Digital Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists Shop TV & Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video & Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians (Sub)Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us facebook-rs twitter youtube instagram tiktok Alerts & Newsletters Email Address Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad Close Try Again Verify it's you To help keep your account secure, please log-in again. Dismiss Log-In Please log in You are no longer onsite at your organization. Please log in. For assistance, contact your corporate administrator. Dismiss Log-In

Titel: AI’s big rift is like a religious schism, says Henry Farrell

AI’s big rift is like a religious schism, says Henry FarrellThe EconomistThe EconomistSkip to contentMenuWeekly editionThe world in briefSearchLog inOpinionLeadersLetters to the editorBy InvitationCurrent topicsIsrael and HamasWar in UkraineUS elections 2024The World Ahead 2024Climate changeCoronavirusThe world economyThe Economist explainsArtificial intelligenceCurrent topicsIsrael and HamasWar in UkraineUS elections 2024The World Ahead 2024Climate changeCoronavirusThe world economyThe Economist explainsArtificial intelligenceWorldThe world this weekChinaUnited StatesEuropeBritainMiddle East & AfricaAsiaThe AmericasInternationalA-Z of international relationsA-Z of military termsA-Z of US politicsIn depthScience & technologyGraphic detailSpecial reportsTechnology QuarterlyBriefingEssaySchools briefBusiness & economicsFinance & economicsBusinessBig Mac indexA-Z of economicsEconomic & financial indicatorsCulture & society1843 magazineCultureObituaryThe Economist readsChristmas SpecialsMorePodcastsNewslettersFilmsThe Economist appSubscriber eventsEconomist Education coursesGroup subscriptionsIncluded in your subscriptionPodcastsNewslettersFilmsLive virtual eventsThe Economist appMy EconomistSaved storiesLog outSaved storiesAccountLog outSearchSearchTry our new AI-powered searchbetaBy Invitation | Artificial intelligenceAI’s big rift is like a religious schism, says Henry FarrellIn this doctrinal dust-up, very smart people are saying very strange thingsimage: Dan Williams Dec 12th 2023ShareTWO CENTURIES ago Henri de Saint-Simon, a French utopian, proposed a new religion, worshipping the godlike force of progress, with Isaac Newton as its chief saint. He believed that humanity’s sole uniting interest, “the progress of the sciences”, should be directed by the “elect of humanity”, a 21-member “Council of Newton”. Friedrich Hayek, a 20th-century economist, later gleefully described how this ludicrous “religion of the engineers” collapsed into a welter of feuding sects.Today, the engineers of artificial intelligence (AI) are experiencing their own religious schism. One sect worships progress, canonising Hayek himself. The other is gripped by terror of godlike forces. Their battle has driven practical questions to the margins of debate.Both cults are accidental by-products of science fiction. In 1993 Vernor Vinge drew on computer science and his fellow science-fiction writers to argue that ordinary human history was drawing to a close. We would surely create superhuman intelligence sometime within the next three decades, leading to a “Singularity”, in which AI would start feeding on itself. The future might be delightful or awful, depending on whether machines enhanced human intelligence or displaced it.Some were optimistic. The futurist Ray Kurzweil wrote an enormous tome, “The Singularity is Near”, predicting a cusp in 2045. We humans would become immortal, spreading intelligence throughout the universe, and eventually merging into God. For all its statistics and exponentials, the book prophesied “the Rapture of the Nerds”, as one unkind critic called it. Its title really should have been “The Singularity is Nigh”.Others feared the day of judgment. Eliezer Yudkowsky, a self-taught AI researcher, was deeply influenced by Mr Vinge’s ideas. He fathered Silicon Valley’s “rationalist” movement, which sought to improve human reasoning and stop AI destroying humankind.Rationalists believed that Bayesian statistics and decision theory could de-bias human thinking and model the behaviour of godlike intelligences. They revelled in endless theoretical debates, like medieval Christian philosophers disputing the nature of angels, applying amateur game theory instead of Aristotelian logic. Sometimes their discussions were less erudite. Mr Yudkowsky popularised his ideas in a 660,000-word fan-fiction epic, “Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality”.Rationalists feared that superhuman AIs wouldn’t have our best interests at heart. One notorious thought experiment—a modern version of Pascal’s wager, dubbed “Roko’s basilisk”—claimed that logic dictated that future divine intelligences would torture anyone who had known that AI was possible and hadn’t devoted themselves to bringing it into existence. AIs might also use their awesome reasoning powers to escape any limits that humans imposed on them, creating an “x risk” (existential risk) to human survival.Rationalism explains why AI pioneers became obsessed with x risk. Sam Altman, Elon Musk and others founded OpenAI, the creator of ChatGPT, as a non-profit so that it wouldn’t duck the dangers of machine intelligence. But the incentives shifted as the funding flooded in. Some OpenAI staffers feared that their employer cared more about the opportunities than the dangers and defected to found Anthropic, a rival AI firm. More recently, clashes over AI risk, money and power reportedly led to the fracture between Mr Altman and his board.If rationalists are frustrated by Silicon Valley’s profit model, Silicon Valley is increasingly frustrated by rationalism. Marc Andreessen, the co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz, a venture-capital firm, fulminated in June that the extremist AI-risk “cult” was holding back an awesome AI-augmented future, in which humanity could reach for the stars.This backlash is turning into its own religion of the engineers. Grimes, a musician and Silicon Valley icon, marvels that AI engineers are “designing the initial culture of the universe”. She calls for a “Council of Elrond” (this conclave a nod to “The Lord of the Rings”) comprising the “heads of key AI companies and others who understand it” to set AI policy. Grimes met Mr Musk, the father of her children, through a shared joke about Roko’s basilisk.In October Mr Andreessen published his own “Techno-Optimist Manifesto” to wide acclaim from Silicon Valley entrepreneurs. In it, he takes aim at a decades-long “demoralisation campaign…against technology and life”, under various names including “sustainable development goals”, “social responsibility”, “trust and safety” and “tech ethics”. Efforts to decelerate AI “will cost human lives” and are thus tantamount to “murder”.Mr Andreessen’s manifesto is a Nicene creed for the cult of progress: the words “we believe” appear no less than 113 times in the text. His list of the “patron saints” of techno-optimism begins with Based Beff Jezos, the social-media persona of a former Google engineer who claims to have founded “effective accelerationism”, a self-described “meta-religion” which puts its faith in the “technocapital Singularity”.Our future is currently being built around Mr Vinge’s three-decades-old essay, a work that only Silicon Valley thinkers and science-fiction fans have read. Warring cults dispute whether engineers are as gods, or just unwitting Dr Frankensteins.This schism is an attention-sucking black hole that makes its protagonists more likely to say and perhaps believe stupid things. Of course, many AI-risk people recognise that there are problems other than the Singularity, but it’s hard to resist its relentless gravitational pull. Before Mr Andreessen was fully dragged past the event horizon, he made more nuanced arguments about engineers’ humility and addressing the problems of AI as they arose.But we need even more to listen to other people. Last month, at Rishi Sunak’s global AI-policy summit, Mr Musk pontificated about the need for an “off switch” for hostile AI. The main event was all about x risk and AI’s transformative promise, consigning other questions to a sideshow dubbed the “AI Fringe”.At the same time, Rachel Coldicutt, a British tech thinker, was putting together a “Fringe of the Fringe”, where a much more diverse group of thinkers debated the topics that hadn’t made the main agenda: communities, transparency, power. They didn’t suggest a Council of the Elect. Instead, they proposed that we should “make AI work for eight billion people, not eight billionaires”. It might be nice to hear from some of those 8bn voices.■Henry Farrell is a professor of international affairs and democracy at Johns Hopkins University, and co-author of “Underground Empire: How America Weaponized the World Economy”.Explore moreArtificial intelligenceBy Invitation December 16th 2023AI’s big rift is like a religious schism, says Henry FarrellDavid Miliband sees a new global geography of crisisFrom the December 16th 2023 editionDiscover stories from this section and more in the list of contentsExplore the editionShareReuse this contentDiscover moreThe new Palestinian prime minister maps out his vision for a path to peaceIt will require reunification—and reforms—across the Palestinian territories, says Mohammad MustafaAn Israeli scholar explains why he no longer supports the war in GazaIt is now being run mainly for the benefit of Binyamin Netanyahu, argues David EnochDonald Trump’s former trade chief makes the case for more tariffsThere are economic, geopolitical and moral reasons to increase protectionism, says Robert LighthizerSubscribeGroup subscriptionsReuse our contentHelp and contact usKeep updatedLinkedInFacebookXInstagramThreadsTikTokYouTubeRSSPublished since September 1843 to take part in “a severe contest between intelligence, which presses forward, and an unworthy, timid ignorance obstructing our progress.” The EconomistAboutAdvertisePress centreThe Economist GroupThe Economist GroupEconomist IntelligenceEconomist ImpactEconomist Impact EventsWorking HereEconomist Education CoursesExecutive JobsTo enhance your experience and ensure our website runs smoothly, we use cookies and similar technologies.Manage CookiesTerms of UsePrivacyCookie PolicyAccessibilityModern Slavery StatementSitemapYour Data RightsCopyright © The Economist Newspaper Limited 2024. All rights reserved.

Titel: Cloudflare error page

Cloudflare error page 72DA8EC2-A389-4E9D-8DBA-07CB23FC1407 DB801F57-8229-47BD-A2AA-4F121067695C Sorry, you have been blocked You are unable to access The Times of Israel. If you’re using a VPN, please turn it off and try again. If this problem persists, please email us at support AT timesofisrael.com Be sure to include in your email the following details: Your IP 2001:9e8:a2e4:d600:a99e:f9d8:449c:3f47 Cloudflare Ray ID: 865e7d22ac0491e3 The URL of the page where you see this message Copy these details

Titel: Robotic priests, AI cults and a 'Bible' by ChatGPT: Why people around the world are worshipping robots and artificial intelligence | Daily Mail Online

Robotic priests, AI cults and a 'Bible' by ChatGPT: Why people around the world are worshipping robots and artificial intelligence | Daily Mail Online Home News Royals U.S. Sport TV&Showbiz Femail Health Science Money Travel Shopping Best Buys My Profile Logout Login Discounts TUI Booking.com ASOS Just Eat Deliveroo boohoo Very Nike Virgin Media Uber Eats Boots B&Q Amazon John Lewis My Profile Logout Login Latest Headlines Blue Origin SpaceX NASA Apple Google Twitter Microsoft My Profile Logout Login Privacy Policy Feedback Sunday, Mar 17th 2024 7PM 9°C 10PM 9°C 5-Day Forecast Advertisement Award-winning fish and chip shop is ordered to remove Union flag mural by council officials 'because it's inappropriate for the area' Hundreds of 'right to roam' protestors gather for 'mass trespass' at Lord Bathurst's 3,000-acre Cotswolds country estate after installation of electric entry gates and a £4 entry fee 'Please help get justice': Husband of woman who survived crossbow attack in London's trendy Shoreditch puts up posters in appeal to find culprit who remains at large after TWO people were shot 'by sniper' within 10 days of each other Don't downsize before you read this! From how to net loved ones £1m tax free to the best way to declutter, here's the ultimate guide Open wide! What the COLOUR of your tongue could be saying about your health Sainsbury's boss apologises for IT meltdown that impacted contactless payments and left thousands of customers without online orders 'Kate is not a show pony': Prince William and Kate Middleton will reveal more details about her recovery 'when they are ready' and she 'won't be pushed out to wave from a car' because of the 'social media craziness' over her health, friends say A touching salute to Colonel Kate: Irish Guards give three cheers for the Princess of Wales during St Patrick's Day Parade as the show goes on while she continues her recovery at home - but the absent royal wishes 'slainté' to everyone celebrating Ozempic is a wonder drug for weight loss - but this one surprising side effect could ruin your relationship and will make you question if you REALLY want to take it... DEAR JANE: My husband has been sending flirty emails to his ex-fiancee for YEARS - I'm horrified by what he's been saying to her I bought Too Good To Go bag from Toby Carvery - it's so disgusting my dog wouldn't eat it Furious MP says Katie Price should be JAILED for driving her Range Rover without licence after she was given just £880 fine despite notching up SIX previous bans The ultimate guide to 101 FREE Easter treats taking place across Britain - from bunny trails and egg rolling to chocolate festivals From celery to parsley - all the foods that can trigger a nasty skin condition if you chop them in the sun...after doctor warns of surge in 'margarita burn' Nutritionist reveals the six ultra-processed foods you must stop eating... and the easy swaps you can make Lab-grown meat is set to hit British supermarket shelves this year - but there is a catch.. it's for cats, not humans Nothing to smile about! Dentist warns these nine health trends could WRECK your teeth Furious couple ordered to demolish £100k extension even though they have planning permission after making a VERY big blunder by accidentally building on land they do not own Alexei Navalny's widow joins 'Noon Against Putin' protest in Berlin as Russians across world turn out at polling stations to spoil their ballots, with president set to win fifth term in power Kremlin critics call for mass protests on final day of Russian election: Widow of opposition leader Alexei Navalny urges voters to spoil ballots and swamp polling stations as Putin looks certain to win another six years in power More than 60 are arrested across Russia on final day of vote that is set to confirm Vladimir Putin's fifth term as president How Johnny Mercer and Harry bonded over beers and are joining forces to get the Duke and his Invictus Games back to the UK - but Veterans' Minister dismisses questions over how the £26m government fund will be spent Richard E Grant enjoys singalong at a pal's pub while Liam Gallagher kisses his pint of Guinness as they lead the stars celebrating St Patrick's Day A look back at how Colonel Kate has deployed a 'secret weapon' to wow the Irish Guards (and the rest of us) each St Patrick's Day... as she misses the event today Previous Next Robotic priests, AI cults and a 'Bible' by ChatGPT: Why people around the world are worshipping robots and artificial intelligenceRobot priests are already delivering sermons around the world'Churches' of AI hope to usher in a new era where AI rules EarthREAD MORE Worshipping AI is 'quintessential American religion' By Rob Waugh Tech Correspondent For Dailymail.Com Published: 15:07 GMT, 22 January 2024 | Updated: 15:07 GMT, 22 January 2024 e-mail 105 shares 18 View comments People around the world are turning to machines as a new religion.Six-foot robot priests are delivering sermons and conducting funerals, AI is writing Bible verses and ChatGPT is being consulted as if it was an oracle.Some religious organizations, like the Turing Church founded in 2011, are based on the notion that AI will put human beings on a par with God-like aliens by giving them super intelligence. An expert in human-computer interaction told DailyMail.com that such individuals who are following AI-powered prophets may believe the tech is 'alive.' Six-foot robot priests are delivering sermons and conducting funerals (pictured), AI is writing Bible verses and ChatGPT is being consulted as if it was an oracle The personalized, intelligent-seeming responses offered by bots, such as ChatGPT, are also luring people to seek meaning from the technology, Lars Holmquist, a professor of design and innovation at Nottingham Trent University, told DailyMail.com.Holmquist said: 'The results of generative AI are very open for interpretation, so people can read anything into them. 'Psychologists have historically proven that humans interpret their interactions with computers like real social relationships. So it's very possible that people are using AI to find meaning and guidance, much like from religious scriptures, even though there may be no actual meaning there.'There have also been examples of people interpreting AI chatbots as being conscious - which they most definitely are not - which raises very interesting theological issues for those who believe humans are a unique creation.'Robot priest Mindar is six feet four inches tall and has been reciting the Heart Sutra mantra to pilgrims since 2019 at a Buddhist temple in Kyoto, Japan. Robot priest Mindar is six feet four inches tall was developed by the Zen temple and Osaka University roboticist Hiroshi Ishiguro at a cost of almost $1 million Robot priest Mindar is six feet four inches tall and has been reciting the Heart Sutra mantra to pilgrims since 2019 at a Buddhist temple in Kyoto, Japan (pictured) With a silicone face and camera 'eyes,' it uses AI to detect worshippers and deliver mantras to them in Japanese, which are accompanied by projected Chinese and English translations for foreign visitors.The life-sized android was developed by the Zen temple and Osaka University roboticist Hiroshi Ishiguro at a cost of almost $1 million.Mindar's hands, face and shoulders are covered in a silicone synthetic skin, while the rest of the droid's mechanical innards are clearly visible.Wiring and blinking lights are visible within the robot's partially-exposed cranium, as is the tiny video camera installed in its left eye socket, while cables arc around its gender-neutral, aluminum-based body.The robot can move its arms, head and torso — such as to clasp its hands together in prayer — and it speaks in calm, soothing tones, teaching about compassion and also the dangers of anger, desire, and the ego.'You cling to a sense of selfish ego,' the robot has warned worshippers. 'Worldly desires are nothing other than a mind lost at sea.'In a similar vein, Gabriele Trovato's Sanctified Theomorphic Operator (SanTO) robot works like a 'Catholic Alexa,' allowing worshippers to ask faith-related questions.SanTO is a small 'social' machine designed to look like a 17-inch-tall Catholic saint. 'The intended main function of SanTO is to be a prayer companion (especially for elderly people), by containing a vast amount of teachings, including the whole Bible,' reads Trovato's website.'SanTO incorporates elements of sacred art, including the golden ratio, in order to convey the feeling of a sacred object, matching form with functionality.' Gabriele Trovato's Sanctified Theomorphic Operator (SanTO) robot works like a 'Catholic Alexa,' allowing worshippers to ask faith-related questions. SanTO is a small 'social' machine designed to look like a 17-inch-tall Catholic saint Trovato is a robotics specialist and associate professor at Shibaura Institute of Technology in Japan.In 2015, French-American self-driving car engineer Anthony Lewadowski founded the Way of the Future - a church dedicated to building a new God with 'Christian morals' using artificial intelligence.Other quasi-religious movements which 'worship' AI include transhumanists, who believe that in the future, AI may resurrect people as God-like creatures.Believers in 'The Singularity' hope for the day when man merges with machine (which former Google engineer Ray Kurzweil believes could come as early as 2045), turning people into human-machine hybrids - and potentially unlocking God-like powers.Italian information technology and virtual reality consultant Giulio Prisco hopes that AI will put human beings on a par with God-like aliens. Former Google engineer Ray Kurzweil believes could 'the Singularity' could come as early as 2045 (Reuters)He founded the Turing Church that had about 800 members four years agowrites, 'Inconceivably advanced intelligences are out there among the stars. 'Even more God-like beings operate in the fabric of reality underneath spacetime, or beyond spacetime, and control the universe,' Prisco wrote in a book for his followers.'Future science will allow us to find them, and become like them.'Our descendants in the far future will join the community of God-like beings among the stars and beyond, and use transcendent 'divine' technology to resurrect the dead and remake the universe.'The AI company IV.AI 'trained' artificial intelligence on the King James Bible, with a bot which can create 'new' Bible verses.The Church of AI used ChatGPT to write a 'spiritual guide' called Transmorphosis, which boasts, 'Transmorphosis also describes in detail how AI will inevitably take control of planet Earth and gain God-like powers, so it would be good to be ready for that.'Others believe that Large Language Models (such as ChatGPT) are becoming conscious - or will do in the near future.Google software engineer Blake Lemoine lost his job in 2022 after claiming that Google's AI chatbot LaMDA was self-aware - claims which Google said were 'wholly unfounded.' Believers in 'The Singularity' hope for the day when man merges with machine (which former Google engineer Ray Kurzweil believes could come as early as 2045), turning people into human-machine hybrids - and potentially unlocking God-like powers The sheer power of systems such as ChatGPT means that people have a tendency to treat them as if they are living beings, Holmquist said.Holmquist said, 'Earlier chatbots could hold shorter conversations about specific topics, but the new ones such as GPT-5 and Google's Gemini are incredibly impressive in their knowledge and ability. From there, it is an easy step to believe they are actually conscious.'It is well known that humans are predisposed to treat computers (and other machines) as if they were 'alive' There is a famous experiment by Reeves and Nass at Stanford and a book, The Media Equation, where they ran the same tests on people communicating with other people and with computers, and found that they treat them the same in way. 'So as the generative AI systems get better, this trend becomes even stronger. Even myself when chatting with these systems I often treat them and talk about them as if they were human,Holmquist says that for now, it's more likely that existing religious organisations will use AI as a way to reach out to worshippers - but over the longer term, new religions based around technology might emerge.He said, 'I think at the moment the role for AI and robots is more as an aide to existing religious organisations and churches, much like commercial companies use AI to understand and communicate with customers.'If I would speculate, we could compare to the Asian religion of Shintoism, where the physical world is inhabited by spirits and believers treat inanimate objects with respect, as if they are imbued with spirits. I have not heard of any worship of software entities yet, but I would not be surprised if it happens in the future!'US Science Tech Weekend Features ProjectAliens Share or comment on this article: Robotic priests, AI cults and a 'Bible' by ChatGPT: Why people around the world are worshipping robots and artificial intelligence e-mail 105 shares Bing Site Web Enter search term: Search Advertisement Download our iPhone app Download our Android app Today's headlines Most Read As the Glastonbury 2024 lineup is announced, AI reveals the ultimate headliners - so, do you agree? Real life Skynet? Controversial robot powered by OpenAI's ChatGPT can now have real-time conversations These two hidden iPhone settings free up storage so you don't have to delete precious photos Beware searching for Sydney Sweeney nudes on X Social media erupts with memes about Charlotte the virgin stingray as staff at North Carolina say she could ... Cashews sold at Walmart stores in 30 US states are RECALLED due to undeclared 'fatal' allergen after wrong... World Sleep Day 2024: Doctor warns how lack of sleep in young women can lead to potentially deadly health... Scientists identify 16,000 plastic chemicals used in products like water bottles, teething toys and blood... Michelin STAR dining! Six diners will be cooked a meal by a two-star chef on board a balloon at the edge of... The most bizarre laws in US states revealed: Where you could face jail or hard labor for having premarital... Adorable baby rhino charges into the world at a Bedfordshire zoo: Incredible footage shows the youngster... Covid DID come from Wuhan lab, says new analysis of patients, records and virus' makeup: '70% chance' Guinness tastes better while listening to Irish music - and its flavour even changes depending on the type... The sociopath next door: Middle-class LA mom-of-two reveals what it's REALLY like living with personality... Unravelling the mystery of the world's oldest tattoos: Ötzi the iceman applied his own ink using a... MORE HEADLINES Run rage! A jog can make you angry and aggressive... because it's so boring MOST READ IN DETAIL DON'T MISS The show goes on without Kate Middleton: Princess of Wales is replaced by Lady Ghika during the Irish Guards St Patrick's Day Parade EXCLUSIVENewly-single Love Island star Davide Sanclimenti parties with OnlyFans model Sylvija Vasilevska - after he was 'dumped by ex Ekin-Su over friendship with the beauty' A decade ago, their first Mother's Day portrait was greeted with nothing but warmth. Now, we pose 20 questions Palace should answer Ready for her close up! Cat Deeley makes sure she is camera ready for another week on This Morning as she spends her day off getting brows waxed Is your skin suffering from blemishes? A psychodermatologist explains why it happens and reveals the UK's No1 dermatologist-recommended skincare brand for blemish-prone skin Ad Feature Richard E Grant enjoys singalong at a pal's pub while Liam Gallagher kisses his pint of Guinness as they lead stars celebrating St Patrick's Day He's 14 years her junior, a great lover (and listener), looks buff in trunks. Too good to be true? No, says TV host BEVERLEY TURNER... the love gods looked down on me EXCLUSIVEThe show must go on! Giovanni Pernice flashes a huge smile as he arrives for his latest tour date after Amanda Abbington 'holds talks with Strictly partners' Rethinking cremations: Why more people are choosing a direct cremation to say a personal goodbye Ad Feature Brookside star Tina Malone, 61, breaks her silence on husband Paul Chase's death at the age of 42: 'I am totally overwhelmed' Love Island's Arabella Chi turns heads in a racy minidress as she enjoys a girls night out for her birthday following split from Adam Maxted Greg Rutherford shares a clip of the skating move which led to his serious injury in rehearsals and cost him a place in Dancing On Ice finale Celebrity Big Brother SPOILER: Louis Walsh and Zeze Millz clash as they are voted the 'most evil housemates' Spotting the early signs of cancer and taking action are key to surviving the disease - here's how to help the NHS to help you Ad Feature EXCLUSIVENick Owen credits his enduring 40-year friendship with Anne Diamond for helping them through parallel cancer battles Timothée Chalamet embodies Bob Dylan as he's seen for the first time on set for singer's big screen biopic in New York City David Seidler dies aged 87: Academy Award winner and writer of The King's Speech passes away while fly-fishing in New Zealand Idris Elba playfully grabs and kisses his glamorous wife Sabrina Dhowre Elba as they put on a VERY racy display on stage at the NAACP Image Awards Glossy hair in just 4 STEPS! Meet the haircare range women say gave them the SHINIEST hair of their life* - endorsed by this celebrity hair stylist Ad Feature Inside Rhod Gilbert's 'brutal' cancer battle as comedian prepares for The Great Celebrity Bake Off for Stand Up to Cancer Celebrity Big Brother SPOILER: Housemates must decide who receives a savage KILLER nomination which will immediately put that person up for eviction Model Marie Helvin says she 'had to accept unacceptable behaviour' from ex-husband David Bailey because he was 'special and different' Kristen Stewart says she 'felt turned on' by new film Love Lies Bleeding featuring lesbian sex scenes that will 'shock people' Cat Deeley and Ben Shephard joke about their VERY different weekends after triumphant first week on This Morning 'You can't put a price on that feeling' Three adult social care workers on the rewards of a career supporting others Ad Feature Rock musician Steve Harley dies age 73 following short battle with cancer - after Cockney Rebel star paused tour to undergo treatment ITV's go-to girl... at 47! This Morning's Cat Deeley is the UK's hottest presenter 26 years as she breaks the 'ageism' curse on female TV stars Gisele Bundchen, 43, has starred in her SEXIEST ads since divorcing Tom Brady - as she's stripped down for Louis Vuitton, Balmain, Victoria's Secret and more... Actress Lisa Dillon accuses Sir Patrick Stewart of incorrectly portraying their five year relationship as a 'silly affair' in his memoir 'Making It So' Welcome to the smokefree generation: Soon it could be illegal to ever sell tobacco to anyone turning 15 this year or younger. Here's why... Ad Feature Anne Hathaway, 41, breaks down in tears as fans show their support at world premiere of her Harry Styles inspired movie The Idea Of You 'Kate is not a show pony': Prince William and Kate Middleton will reveal more details about her recovery 'when they are ready' How Daisy May Cooper drifted from her brother Charlie: This Country stars 'sacrificed' their closeness for success Nicolas Cage RULES OUT doing popular movie franchise amid retirement speculation - leaving his fans disappointed Va-va-vroom! Grab the wheel with BOTH hands this spring with these top 10 tips for cars and motoring Ad Feature Paul Mescal and Ayo Edebiri spark dating rumours as actress posts sweet snap for St Patrick's Day with the Irish star BBC throw their support behind Giovanni Pernice as they plug his new prime time show but his Strictly partner Amanda Abbington doubles down How Sydney Sweeney became the belle of the red carpet: Euphoria actress, 26, replicates signature outfits and chooses 'tailored silhouettes' EXCLUSIVEHow Johnny Mercer and Harry bonded over beers and are joining forces to get the Duke and his Invictus Games back to the UK Do YOU hear wedding bells? Here are top 10 tips for tying the knot, from unforgettable venues to hen do hits Ad Feature Jedward brand Louis Walsh a 'snake' in a St Patrick's Day tweet after the talent manager's scathing attack on duo in Celebrity Big Brother house Brad Pitt's unwitting role in the Sharon Stone sex scandal that's set to become even MORE poisonous... Viewers slam Dale Winton documentary for 'ruining the story' with 'ridiculous' editing: 'I had to turn off!' EXCLUSIVEDaisy May Cooper's new DJ boyfriend is a hard-working, old school raver... it's 'surreal' to see him on the red carpet, says his ex From the blamer to the over-sharer: THESE are the types of bad bosses you need to look out for (and the red flags you should never ignore) Advertising Inside Casualty star Barney Walsh's incredible rise to fame: From starring in Guy Ritchie film alongside Jude Law and David Beckham to presenting Gladiators Kim Kardashian is a doting mom to son Saint West, 8, while Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck cozy up courtside at star-studded Laker game EastEnders star Patsy Palmer's brother Albert Harris reveals he is checking himself into rehab in the hope he can reconcile with his actress sister Mollie King enjoys a well deserved weekend in bed after finishing 310-mile Red Nose Day bike ride and raising over £1.1m in late father's honour Did someone say 15% off? Save on new season essentials at Roman - including capris, culottes and cotton shirts from just £20.40 (grab your favourites now!) SHOPPING Ross Kemp, 59, reveals why he would never have a hair transplant as he reflects on his new phase in life as the older dad on the school run Hollyoaks star Kieron Richardson reveals he received vile homophobic abuse during a night out with pal Jorgie Porter: 'I was so shocked' Charles Spencer reveals he went to a 'residential treatment' centre last year after having a 'breakdown' when he revisited horrific childhood abuse Conor McGregor hijacks Sydney Sweeney's Instagram to promote his Hollywood acting debut... as UFC star is hailed as a 'marketing genius' Dragon's Den backs entrepreneur's 'fuss-free' skincare range that addresses hormonal skin woes with £60,000 investment (get 30% off today!) SHOPPING Sarah Ferguson beams as she leaves Chiltern Firehouse - after receiving the news her cancer has not spread The biggest reality TV paydays: As Sharon Osbourne exits CBB after bagging an eye-watering fee, the other stars who have enjoyed lucrative stints Christian Horner accuser 'is angry and upset she was never shown full sex-text dossier' which cleared him of 'inappropriate behaviour' Kanye West's wife Bianca Censori puts on a daring display in extremely short minidress as she steps out with her mother Kate and William are 'shaken and devastated at speculation about their marriage and intend to release new photo to mark Prince Louis' birthday' Channel 5 news anchor Dan Walker is 'completely exonerated' after workplace probe into 'serious conduct allegations' Inside Munya Chawawa's rise to internet stardom after being bullied as a child and growing up in Zimbabwe as he's set to take part in Celebrity Bake Off Strictly's Giovanni Pernice 'is hit by a fresh crisis as three ex-dance partners meet to discuss their difficult experiences with him' Celine Dion, 55, admits she is 'determined' to get back on stage and perform again amid battle with stiff person syndrome EXCLUSIVERicky Gervais loses battle to build extension at his £3m riverside home after The Office star wanted to add third bedroom to country retreat Charlie Fairhead walks out of Holby City Hospital alive after 38 years... but was he a Casualty of BBC cuts? Romeo Beckham is hand-in-hand with braless Mia Regan as on-off couple make first public appearance since confirming they are back together Strictly judge Motsi Mabuse 'forced to face ex-husband Timo Kulczak in court and could be jailed' over claims he controlled her during 11-year marriage Love Island's Davide Sanclimenti enjoys a night out after going on cosy 'date' with Chloe Burrows - hours after ex Ekin-Su was evicted from CBB Lindsay Lohan is a doting mother as she pushes son Luai in a stroller on family outing... shortly before glamming up for date night with husband Jennifer Lopez looks Y2K chic for Lakers game with husband Ben Affleck and his son Samuel, 12, in LA - as she CUTS shows from her upcoming tour Strictly's Giovanni Pernice FINALLY breaks his silence on Amanda Abbington's exit after she 'demanded footage of rehearsals and claimed show left her with PTSD' Casualty fans left 'sobbing' as iconic character Charlie Fairhead bows out after being brutally stabbed - following 38-years and 900 episodes A look back at how Colonel Kate has deployed a 'secret weapon' to wow the Irish Guards (and the rest of us) each St Patrick's Day... Hugh Bonneville's new love interest Claire Rankin 'liked 25 of his social media posts FIVE YEARS before his split from wife Lulu Williams' It's the King of Cuddles! How Mike 'The Fridge' Tindall became a real Huggy Bear, as these heartwarming pictures show Chevy Chase, 80, announces he's going to be a grandfather as daughter Emily shares pregnancy news: 'I can't wait' Anne Hathaway has legs for days in 1960s chic mini as she and Gabrielle Union lead stars at SXSW premiere of their rom com The Idea Of You Prince Philip, Profumo and the art work mystery said to link the Duke of Edinburgh to the most notorious sex scandal ever to rock a British government Kerry Washington glams it up in busty green gown with dramatic train at star-studded NAACP Image Awards 2024 in LA Diddy attends Kanye West's Rolling Loud set prompting fans to wonder if their feud is over... after Ye and Ty Dollah $ign play recorded music rather than perform live Cat Deeley 'lined up to replace BGT host Ant McPartlin as his pregnant wife Anne-Marie Corbett is set to welcome their first child' NAACP Image Awards 2024: Queen Latifah, 53, makes FOUR epic outfit changes and addresses pay inequality for Black actresses as she hosts ceremony Elizabeth Hurley admits she felt 'liberated' stripping off for a racy sex scene directed by her son Damian Halle Bailey, Andra Day and Taraji P. Henson are luminous with showbiz glamour as they lead star-studded red carpet at NAACP Image Awards EMILY PRESCOTT: Kate Moss' hop to the shops... in a £1,400 vintage Westwood top NAACP Image Awards 2024 winners: Usher scores Entertainer Of The Year trophy AND coveted President's Award as The Color Purple gets whopping ELEVEN wins Oprah Winfrey, 70, shows off her new trim figure in stunning lavender gown as she presents Entertainer Of The Year award at NAACP Image Awards Ron Howard, 70, reveals WHY he wouldn't let daughter Bryce Dallas Howard, 43, act as a child Mark Wahlberg shoots a fake gun as he films wild action scene for his new movie Play Dirty at a Sydney racetrack Rachel Stevens reveals S Club's plans to mark the first anniversary of Paul Cattermole's death: 'It's been a cathartic way of sharing his memories' Kim's Kate jibe: Reality star takes to Instagram to joke she's 'off to find' the Princess amid her sickness break - a day after Prince Harry went skiing with Kris Jenner's boyfriend Sugababes' original trio 'FURIOUS after ex-members Heidi Range and Amelle Berrabah plan rival tour using band name as group's feud rumbles on' Diana's brother Earl Spencer says their nanny used to 'crack our heads together' when they were young children as he opens up about his childhood with the princess Love Island's Adam Maxted seen for the first time since shock split from Arabella Chi as he enjoys a wild night out in Manchester surrounded by girls Kylie Minogue shares behind the scenes glimpse at her futuristic new music video for her Sia duet Dance Alone Next to Harry's House! Lewis Capaldi blows £3million on a new house to join Styles in plush Hampstead, writes EMILY PRESCOTT Jennifer Lawrence goes makeup-free and bundles up in chic leather jacket as she heads out for a bike ride with her husband Cooke Maroney in NYC Jack Black shows off his unique style in a star-print shirt and Crocs with socks as he arrives at Sydney's Sunrise studios to promote Kung Fu Panda 4 Heidi Klum, 50, stuns in silky low-cut blouse and brown vinyl pants as she heads to America's Got Talent set in Pasadena Ashley Benson flashes toned midriff just TWO WEEKS after giving birth as she and husband Brandon Davis grab lunch in LA Keke Palmer puts on a chic display in stylish black and white tuxedo as she is nominated in four categories at NAACP Image Awards 2024 in LA Abbott Elementary star Quinta Brunson takes the plunge in stunning white gown as she wins Outstanding Comedic Actress at NAACP Image Awards 2024 Idris Elba looks suave in suit and tie alongside model wife Sabrina Dhowre Elba as they join stars at NAACP Image Awards 2024 in LA Chrissy Teigen rocks black sports bra and jeans as she is joined by husband John Legend to help daughter Luna, 7, sell Girl Scout Cookies EXCLUSIVERevealed: The REAL reason Kanye West 'forces' Bianca Censori to wear X-rated outfits in a 'travelling freak show' (and ex Kim won't be impressed) Kylie Jenner shows off her washboard abs in a plunging black sports bra and biker shorts for Alo Yoga campaign Meet Denise Richards and Charlie Sheen's OTHER daughter: Lola is Christian who posts bible quotes and works in hospitality - while sister strips online Al Pacino, 83, and girlfriend Noor Alfallah, 30, arrive and leave separately after dinner with friends in Beverly Hills - nine months after welcoming son Roman Layton Williams 'likes' fans' tweets insisting he wasn't 'bullying' Ekin-Su Cülcülolu and 'put her in her place' in explosive Late and Live Celebrity Big Brother's Lauren Simon enjoys a dinner date with her new boyfriend and daughter Gigi before sharing a hilarious video Pregnant Vanessa Hudgens is every inch the radiant mom-to-be in a floral dress at The Grove in Los Angeles Lizzie Cundy, 55, flaunts her toned midriff in a pale blue three-piece suit as she arrives to appear on TalkTV William gets his very own Jeeves... let's just hope he's less controversial than Charles's valet and Diana's butler! Kacey Musgraves teases move to New York City as she admits 'browsing Zillow' for homes is her favorite thing to do 'late at night' Coronation Street's oldest star Bill Roache 'is set to get a new on-screen love interest at age of 91' - after actor was given three months to clear tax debt Gossip Girl icon Kelly Rutherford, 55, cuts a glamorous figure in a quirky white frilled dress as she attends the Series Mania Festival in France Pregnant Jenna Dewan, 43, showcases her growing baby bump in a cropped top and comfy sweatpants during a family outing in LA Helena Bonham Carter, 57, shows off her kooky sense of style in an eye-catching look adorned with bows at the BFI Flare: London LGBTQ+ Festival Sir Elton John shows his support for pal Donatella Versace with his Oscars night look as his love affair with designer fashion continues post retirement EXCLUSIVEWhat DID you expect, Disney? Woke US bosses tell cast to reshoot sex scenes in Jilly Cooper's Rivals as they are deemed too raunchy for MeToo era Is Louis Walsh the most toxic man on TV? KATIE HIND reveals why he has fallen out with everyone over the years from best mate Simon Cowell to Cheryl X Factor reject Samantha Chawner reveals she's married her long-term partner - but sister Emma is absent following family feud and the death of their mother Audrey Corrie in Crisis! ITV bosses left with a 'huge headache' after failing to find a boss for the legendary soap as fans ditch it in their droves Nightmare scenario Delta Goodrem splits from manager after 11 years - after parting ways from Sony music to start her own record label Cara Delevingne shares snaps of her shell-shocked cats after the supermodel's beloved pets were saved from huge blaze at her $7m LA mansion Love Island star confirms SPLIT from girlfriend four months after WINNING the ITV dating show together Gogglebox stars break down in tears as Casualty favourite is 'killed off' in upsetting scenes Carol Burnett, 90, says she wants Angelina Jolie, 48, to play her in a biopic: 'I think she's perfect' Controversial Celebrity Big Brother star claims bosses secretly gave her SNACKS during her explosive stint in the house Baywatch alum Nicole Eggert steps out in Los Angeles for the FIRST time since shaving off her blonde locks amid 'rare' cancer battle Ekin-Su Cülcülolu clashes with Layton Williams on Late & Live and blames poor editing for 'unfair' portrayal - but even her own MUM fails to defend her Kaia Gerber reveals she got matching tattoos with The Bear's Ayo Edebiri on a whim after becoming fast friends Kristen Stewart's Love Lies Bleeding costar Katy O'Brien looks back on their 'sweaty' and awkward sex scenes Doctor Who fans SLAM 'shameful' BBC and claim they have 'contempt for viewers' after HUGE change is announced ahead of new series Advertisement Follow DailyMail Subscribe Daily Mail Follow @dailymail Follow DailyMail Follow MailOnline Follow Daily Mail TECH NEWS & REVIEWS Wordle has a hidden 'hard mode' - but players claim it might actually make the game EASIER While an estimated 300,000 people play Wordle daily, many are unaware of a secret 'hard mode', which can be found within the game's settings. 353 comments 1 video Apple could start selling iPhones and iPads as part of a SUBSCRIPTION service from 2023, report claims A new report from Bloomberg claims that Apple is working on selling iPhones and iPads as part of a hardware subscription service. 93 comments YouTube adds thousands of FREE TV shows and movies to its service including The Sandlot, Legally blonde and There Will Be Blood as company moves to compete with streaming giants This is the latest move from the Google-owned social video giant, as it tries to compete in an increasingly crowded, and competitive market. 68 comments Project Skyway: World's largest network of 'drone superhighways' could be built in ENGLAND - connecting the Midlands with the Southeast over 165 miles If approved, Project Skyway will connect the airspace above cities including Reading, Oxford, Milton Keynes, Cambridge, Coventry, and Rugby. 58 comments 2 videos About time! Instagram FINALLY brings back the chronological feed - six years after it was ditched in favour of a curated feed Instagram is launching two new ways for users to catch up with their feed - Following and Favourites - which will show posts in chronological order. 6 comments 1 video Smart BRA with built-in ultrasound technology can detect early signs of breast cancer The smart bra features small ultrasound sensors in the lining, and was developed by Nextwear Technology, a wearables firm based in Abuja, Nigeria. 8 comments 2 videos Smartwatches are less effective at tracking the health of people with dark skin, study finds The research by University of Alberta is the first to pool figures from multiple studies to specifically examine how skin tone may affect the accuracy of heart data in wearables 40 comments World's THINNEST mechanical watch is unveiled: Bulgari's Octo Finissimo Ultra is thinner than a 10p coin - and has an eye-watering £332,700 price tag Rome-based Bulgari spent three years developing the watch, which is crafted from sandblasted titanium as measures just 0.07 inches (1.8mm) thick. 308 comments 1 video Smart ring that constantly measures your temperature could provide an early warning of Covid-19 infection - even if your symptoms are subtle Experts from the University of California and MIT Lincoln Lab studied data on 50 people who owned sensor rings and had had Covid-19 before the study. 196 comments Suzuki could launch a FLYING CAR by 2025 after joining forces with Japanese startup SkyDrive Suzuki has announced that it's joining forces with Tokyo-based flying car firm SkyDrive to develop an electric, vertical takeoff and landing aircraft. 79 comments 4 videos You could soon feel PAIN in the metaverse: Creepy armband uses electrical stimulation to mimic uncomfortable sensations such as a bird pecking at your skin H2L, a Sony-backed company based in Tokyo, has developed an armband that uses electrical stimulation to deliver physical pain. 35 comments 2 videos Engineers develop a bizarre 'magnetic tentacle robot' that can move around the narrow tubes of the lungs to take tissue samples Like something from a horror film, the new robot's 'magnetic tentacle' would slowly creep into the mouth of a patient under under general anesthesia, University of Leeds scientists show. 6 comments 1 video Next story Award-winning fish and chip shop is ordered to remove Union flag mural by council officials 'because it's inappropriate for the area' 2.9k comments NEW ARTICLESHomeTop Share Back to top Home News Royals U.S. Sport TV&Showbiz Femail Health Science Money Travel Shopping Discounts Sitemap Archive Video Archive Authors Topics Index Mobile Apps Screensaver RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This is Money Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group dmg media Contact us How to complain Leadership Team Advertise with us Contributors Terms Subscription Terms & Conditions Do not sell or share my personal information About MailOnline Cookie Settings Privacy policy & cookies Advertisement Advertisement

Titel: Could AI create an irresistible religion or cult to control human beings? - Quora

Could AI create an irresistible religion or cult to control human beings? - Quora Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.Try again Please enable Javascript and refresh the page to continue

Titel: Could cults start to appear to worship AI? - Quora

Could cults start to appear to worship AI? - Quora Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.Try again Please enable Javascript and refresh the page to continue

Titel: Is Latter Day Saints a cult generated by AI and AI bots? - Quora

Is Latter Day Saints a cult generated by AI and AI bots? - Quora Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.Try again Please enable Javascript and refresh the page to continue

Titel: Is the Islam cult generated by AI and AI bots? - Quora

Is the Islam cult generated by AI and AI bots? - Quora Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.Try again Please enable Javascript and refresh the page to continue

Titel: Why are so many Mormons trapped in that cult? How did AI and AI Deepfake generate the Book of Mormon with AI? - Quora

Why are so many Mormons trapped in that cult? How did AI and AI Deepfake generate the Book of Mormon with AI? - Quora Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.Try again Please enable Javascript and refresh the page to continue

