Titel: Artificial Intelligence: The Seventh Warfare Myth about Science and Faith? - Reasons to Believe

Artificial Intelligence: The Seventh Warfare Myth about Science and Faith? - Reasons to Believe Skip to content Explore Explore All Multimedia Read Watch Listen Get Involved Ways to get Involved Events Reasons Institute Our Chapters Scholar Community About About Us Team Contact Us FAQ Store Library Search for: Search DONATE Mobile Nav Explore Explore All Multimedia Read Watch Listen Get Involved Ways to get Involved Events Reasons Institute Our Chapters Scholar Community About About Us Team Contact Us FAQ Store Library donate What can we help you find? Search Explore Blog Artificial Intelligence: The Seventh Warfare Myth about Science and Faith? Blog Artificial Intelligence: The Seventh Warfare Myth about Science and Faith? by Zachary Leung April 14, 2022 You have probably experienced some amazing things achieved by artificial intelligence (AI). You use your fingerprint to log into your smartphone, and you speak to command your smart home. But have you ever imagined what AI will accomplish in the future? Or wondered if AI will replace humans? I am thankful for having spent my career in AI, initially as a graduate student, and subsequently as a research scientist, professor, and entrepreneur. I am also grateful to have stimulating discussions today with the youngest generation of researchers and engineers about their coolest AI. There are no doubts in my mind that AI will continue to improve, and I look forward to hearing about more breakthroughs that will improve our lives. However, some imaginations about the future of AI are troubling, especially those raising theological questions. Does AI prove the nonexistence of God? Will AI empower humans to become gods? Can God survive AI? According to Professor Michael Keas, who specializes in the history of science, AI has become a futuristic myth to add fuel to the alleged warfare between science and religion.1 This short article responds to these theological AI claims from a research perspective. It discusses how this future-oriented myth relates to a bigger framework of past-oriented myths on the so-called conflict between science and faith. First, let’s look at some theological AI claims. ET-Enlightenment Supporters of the ET-Enlightenment speculation claim that extraterrestrial life (ET) will be equipped with super-AI. Their idea is based on these assumptions: Life on Earth emerged through Darwinian unguided evolutionary processes.Advanced life must have emerged in the universe through some similar evolutionary process.Since human technology is too primitive to detect ET, we will be found by ET with superior AI. Assuming that unproven Darwinian evolution is true, nontheists extrapolate that superintelligent ET will come to Earth one day, bringing a superior spirituality from the heavens without God. Artificial General Intelligence With the recent AI successes, there is optimism that a general form of AI, or AGI, will soon surpass human intelligence. These optimists speculate that robots will replace humans, a new form of life will be birthed, and science will destroy religions. Some even imagine that AGI will function as gods. Upgrading Humans Extreme AGI optimism propels imaginations even further. Such optimists think that physical death has been reduced to a mere technical problem waiting for a technical solution. Some even imagine that AGI will upgrade humans into gods or that transhumanism will merge humans with machines, thus remaking humans in the image of their own higher ideals. Realistic View of AI As a teenager, I was inspired by science fiction, which led me to AI. From my perspective, science fiction (or sci-fi) is stimulating and inspiring. It may even shape the future of scientific research. However, some of these theological AI scenarios are not in the genre of sci-fi, or are perhaps hidden under the guise of sci-fi. There seems to be a common objective of putting science in direct conflict with religion. How much scientific evidence is there behind these speculations? Renowned hands-on researchers call these speculations absurd and science fiction. Professor John Lennox observes that the amount of unjustified speculation claimed for AI is inversely proportional to the amount of actual hands-on work in AI that the claimant has done.2 I tend to agree. An experienced hands-on scientist would know that AI today is merely extracting salient patterns from a huge dataset. While Darwinian evolution from a common ancestor is still an unproven concept, the idea that future superintelligent ET bringing superior spirituality appears to be purely speculative. The passion for developing AGI to surpass human intelligence has been in existence since the birth of AI over a half-century ago. However, scientists today still have no idea how to define some of the basic features of human intelligence, such as self-consciousness, humor, and love. There is still a major chasm between today’s AI and a primitive form of AGI, let alone of replacing humans, conquering death, or becoming gods. Ironically, in the process of denouncing theology, these scientific ideas are becoming a theology themselves. Six Science-Faith Warfare Myths Historians of science explain that there was little or no conflict between science and faith for many centuries since antiquity.3,4 Yet this futuristic AI myth that portrays conflict is not exactly new. Over the last several centuries, the proliferation of past-oriented science myths has obscured and distorted the facts, resulting in a complex relationship between science and faith. Here are six major science-faith myths that have made their way into textbooks and popular culture. Big Myth The big myth describes a premodern belief that the universe was small. Modern science displaced this church-sanctioned belief with a vast cosmos. However, this description is false because premodern people believed that the universe was very big. Ptolemy taught two thousand years ago that the earth had the ratio of a point to the heavens. Biblical authors used the greatness of the universe to illustrate the glory of the almighty God (Psalm 19:1, 103:11). Dark Myth The dark myth describes the church suppressing the growth of science, causing Europe to descend into the Dark Ages between 500 AD and 1500 AD. However, this story is false. Beginning in the fourth or fifth century, church leaders encouraged the integration of science and faith and wrote that the study of science was a form of worship. Furthermore, the church financially and socially supported the invention of the university, thus stimulating the growth of science. Beginning in Bologna in 1088, over 50 universities were established in Europe by 1450. About 30% of the liberal arts curriculum was on science-related subjects.5 Flat Myth The flat myth is a subset of the dark myth, specifically used to demonstrate: (a) the ignorance of the church, and (b) its suppression of intellectuals who challenged belief in a flat earth until Christopher Columbus proved Earth’s roundness in 1492. However, this story is untrue. Ancient and medieval scholars had many evidence-based reasons to believe in Earth’s roundness. Bruno Myth This myth posits that Bruno was burned alive as a martyr of science in Rome in 1600. While this form of punishment in history was cruel, historians clarify that: (a) Bruno was a philosopher with a very faulty understanding of science at the time, (b) his trial was much more philosophy versus religion than science versus religion,6 and (c) he was executed almost entirely for theological reasons, not scientific ones. About a third of astronomy textbooks today tell this highly misleading myth.7 Galileo Myth This myth holds that the church tortured and imprisoned Galileo in 1633 for constructing his telescope and for his idea of Earth going around the Sun. However, according to historians, Galileo received great honor and respect from the church before and during his trial. Nevertheless, Galileo betrayed the pope, denied receiving a special injunction, and even lied about the aim of his book. Though the church finally disclosed documents to the public in the nineteenth century, this myth has been in textbooks for centuries. Copernican Demotion Myth As canonized in the Catholic Church, Copernicus agreed that God formed the cosmos for humanity’s sake, affirming the harmony of the Bible with astronomy. Published in 1543, his book argued for Earth going around the Sun, thereby providing the basis for Newton’s work a century later. However, beginning in the seventeenth century as part of an anti-Christian effort, Copernicus’s astronomy was falsely portrayed as demoting humans. According to Keas’s survey, over 70% of astronomy textbooks today continue with this Copernican demotion myth. Toward a Science-Faith Harmony Science and Christianity ought to be in harmony with each other. However, myths fabricated over the past several centuries depict them as being perpetually at odds. These myths are still being used today to position Christianity as irrational and at odds with science. Having spent my entire career on AI mostly as a non-Christian, I am shocked that AI is being hijacked to become the seventh warfare myth between science and faith. Our creativity in making AI work so amazingly reflects that we are made in God’s image. We should thank God for giving us the wisdom to develop AI to improve our lives. Endnotes Michael Newton Keas, Unbelievable: 7 Myths about the History and Future of Science and Religion (Wilmington, DE: Intercollegiate Studies Institute, 2019).John Lennox, 2084: Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Humanity (Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan Reflective, 2020).Keas, Unbelievable.Gary B. Ferngren, Science and Religion: A Historical Introduction, 2nd ed. (Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2017).Keas, Unbelievable.Maurice A. Finocchiaro, “Philosophy Versus Religion and Science Versus Religion: The Trials of Bruno and Galileo,” in Giordano Bruno: Philosopher of the Renaissance, 1st ed., edited by Hilary Gatti (New York, NY: Routledge, 2017).Keas, Unbelievable. Artificial Intelligence Will Elon Musk’s Neuralink Make It Possible to Control Electronic Devices with Our Minds? He needs little by way of introduction. By some accounts, he is the second richest man in the world. And through his companies Tesla... People AI Predicts Political Ideology According to popular wisdom, if you want to avoid conflicts with people, don't bring up politics or religion. This saying seems even truer today... Artificial Intelligence Things to Know about Artificial Intelligence Do thoughts about artificial intelligence (AI) bring excitement or fear? Anticipation or dread? And how should we think about this as Christians? If these... Artificial Intelligence Explore Get Involved About Store Library Translations Search Login Support Our Mission Your support helps more people find Christ through sharing how the latest scientific discoveries affirm our faith in the God of the Bible. Donate Now facebook twitter instagram youtube tiktok Contact Us Careers FAQ Privacy Policy

Titel: 403

403403 Forbidden

Titel: Just a moment...

Just a moment...Enable JavaScript and cookies to continue

Titel: Can AI create gods and deities? - Quora

Can AI create gods and deities? - Quora Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.Try again Please enable Javascript and refresh the page to continue

Titel: Is God an AI? - Quora

Is God an AI? - Quora Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.Try again Please enable Javascript and refresh the page to continue

Titel: Why do atheists think that God is just a myth generated by AI and AI deepfakes? How do atheists explain this? - Quora

Why do atheists think that God is just a myth generated by AI and AI deepfakes? How do atheists explain this? - Quora Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.Try again Please enable Javascript and refresh the page to continue

Titel: Can artificial intelligence one day become the actual God that humans have desired since the beginning of human existence? - Quora

Can artificial intelligence one day become the actual God that humans have desired since the beginning of human existence? - Quora Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.Try again Please enable Javascript and refresh the page to continue

Titel: Could God be an artificial intelligence that was originally created by a living thing and has grown in intelligence over vast time? - Quora

Could God be an artificial intelligence that was originally created by a living thing and has grown in intelligence over vast time? - Quora Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.Try again Please enable Javascript and refresh the page to continue

Titel: Ancient myths reveal early fantasies about artificial life

Ancient myths reveal early fantasies about artificial life Skip to content News Menu Search form Search term Home Find Stories For Journalists Contact February 28, 2019 Stanford researcher examines earliest concepts of artificial intelligence, robots in ancient myths In her latest research, Stanford classics scholar Adrienne Mayor highlights ancient Greek myths that contained ideas about creating artificial, lifelike creatures. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email By Alex Shashkevich Thousands of years before machine learning and self-driving cars became reality, the tales of giant bronze robot Talos, artificial woman Pandora and their creator god, Hephaestus, filled the imaginations of people in ancient Greece. A Greek vase painting, dating to about 450 B.C., depicts the death of Talos. Stanford’s Adrienne Mayor examined the myth of Talos and others in her latest research. (Image credit: Wikimedia Commons / Forzaruvo94) Historians usually trace the idea of automata to the Middle Ages, when the first self-moving devices were invented, but the concept of artificial, lifelike creatures dates to the myths and legends from at least about 2,700 years ago, said Adrienne Mayor, a research scholar in the Department of Classics in the School of Humanities and Sciences. These ancient myths are the subject of Mayor’s latest book, Gods and Robots: Myths, Machines, and Ancient Dreams of Technology. “Our ability to imagine artificial intelligence goes back to the ancient times,” said Mayor, who is also a 2018-19 fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford. “Long before technological advances made self-moving devices possible, ideas about creating artificial life and robots were explored in ancient myths.” Mayor, a historian of science, said that the earliest themes of artificial intelligence, robots and self-moving objects appear in the work of ancient Greek poets Hesiod and Homer, who were alive somewhere between 750 and 650 B.C. The story of Talos, first mentioned around 700 B.C. by Hesiod, offers one of the earliest conceptions of a robot, Mayor said. The myth describes Talos as a giant bronze man built by Hephaestus, the Greek god of invention and blacksmithing. Talos was commissioned by Zeus, the king of Greek gods, to protect the island of Crete from invaders. He marched around the island three times every day and hurled boulders at approaching enemy ships. Adrienne Mayor (Image credit: Josiah Ober) At his core, the giant had a tube running from his head to one of his feet that carried a mysterious life source of the gods the Greeks called ichor. Another ancient text, Argonautica, which dates to the third century B.C., describes how sorceress Medea defeated Talos by removing a bolt at his ankle and letting the ichor fluid flow out, Mayor said. The myth of Pandora, first described in Hesiod’s Theogony, is another example of a mythical artificial being, Mayor said. Although much later versions of the story portray Pandora as an innocent woman who unknowingly opened a box of evil, Mayor said Hesiod’s original described Pandora as an artificial, evil woman built by Hephaestus and sent to Earth on the orders of Zeus to punish humans for discovering fire. “It could be argued that Pandora was a kind of AI agent,” Mayor said. “Her only mission was to infiltrate the human world and release her jar of miseries.” In addition to creating Talos and Pandora, mythical Hephaestus made other self-moving objects, including a set of automated servants, who looked like women but were made of gold, Mayor said. According to Homer’s recounting of the myth, Hephaestus gave these artificial women the gods’ knowledge. Mayor argues that they could be considered an ancient mythical version of artificial intelligence. The ancient myths that Mayor examined in her research grapple with the moral implications of Hephaestus’ creations. “Not one of those myths has a good ending once the artificial beings are sent to Earth,” Mayor said. “It’s almost as if the myths say that it’s great to have these artificial things up in heaven used by the gods. But once they interact with humans, we get chaos and destruction.” Mayor said the myths underscore humanity’s fascination with creating artificial life. “People have an impulse to imagine things that aren’t possible yet,” Mayor said. “There is a timeless link between imagination and science.” Media Contacts Alex Shashkevich, Stanford News Service: (650) 497-4419, ashashkevich@stanford.edu Humanities Artificial Intelligence Culture Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email What to read next: Social Sciences Secrets of super communicators Ask a lot of questions, journalist Charles Duhigg advises. And make them deep ones. Science & Technology Disturbed peatlands are a hotspot for carbon emissions Building canals to drain water from peatlands for conversion to agriculture unlocks far more planet-warming carbon dioxide than previously thought. Medicine What really happens to our memory as we age? Despite common lore about major lapses in memory, the effects of healthy aging on cognitive functions are actually quite subtle, says Stanford neurologist Sharon Sha. Stanford Report To receive Stanford news daily, subscribe to Stanford Report. For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Stanford Experts See Also Contact Stanford News Faculty / Staff Resources Events Events calendar Stanford News is a publication of Stanford University Communications Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.

Titel: 403 Forbidden

403 Forbidden 403 Forbidden nginx

